**Modal Editor**, enables efficient work with text:

* Most time is spend to move (position) the cursor before editing text
* **Normal mode** is used to efficiently navigate in a text document
* Edit (add/delete) text in **insert mode**

### First Edit

Install [neovim](https://neovim.io/) on your computer.

```bash
sudo apt install -y neovim      # on Debian/Ubuntu
```

Open a terminal and run the `nvim` command. By default Vim starts in normal mode. 

1. Switch to **insert mode** pressing the `i` (insert) key
2. Enter some text, arrow keys and backspace work as expected
3. Press `Esc` to **return to normal mode**

Command starts with a double point `:`.

The **write command** `:w <filename>` followed by a file name saves
the text into file, i.e. `:w test.txt`.

Exit Vim with the **quit command** `:q`.

### Edit Files

**Open a file** using the `vim` command followed by a filename, i.e. `vim
recipe.txt`. Edit the text (write your favorite cooking recipe). Save the
changes in normal mode whenever you made significant changes with write `:w`.

Use the **edit command** `:e <filename>` to open another file. Use insert mode
to add some text, and save the file. Open the previous file with `:e`, note that
you can use `Tab` to autocomplete the filename.

Exit the editor with `:q`. Vim prevents you from losing unsaved changes unless
explicitly discarded with `:q!`. Save and exit with a combined command `:wq`.

### Basic Motion

Until now you have most likely used the arrow keys to position the cursor.
However in normal mode you can use the keys on the **home row** with your right
hand instead: `h` (left), `j` (down), `k` (up) ,and `l` (right)

Note that your **index finder** should be positioned above `j`, hence should
press `h` and `j`. **Middle finder** is positioned over `k`, and your **ring
finger** is positioned over `l`. 

Positioning of a cursor in a line (motions), switch to insert mode:

```
0  ^    B       b  ge  H l    ew   E W      $     motions
|  |    |       |  |   |↓|    ||   | |      |
   word example-word    Example-word example.
   |                    ↑|                   |
   I                    ia                   A    insert mode
```

Combine motions with insert mode, i.e. gea append at the end of the previous word.


